********************************************************************************
*                 Ginga Ojousama Densetsu Yuna: Final Edition                  *
*                     English Translation Patch Materials                      *
********************************************************************************

This package contains the source materials (code/art/script) for the English 
translation project for the PlayStation game Ginga Ojousama Densetsu Yuna: Final 
Edition.

                    ****************************************
                    *          Build Instructions          *
                    ****************************************
                    
The build system is only set up for Unix-like systems, though none of the code 
is fundamentally dependent on this except a few filesystem functions used in the 
"discaster" disc builder tool, which currently only have POSIX implementations 
because I haven't built anything for Windows in years. In any case, if you 
really wanted to run this on Windows, you could do it with minor changes to the 
code and probably many changes to the build script.

You'll need GCC, libpng, ImageMagick (i.e. the "convert" utility), and any 
dependencies of armips.

You'll first need a disc image of Ginga Ojousama Densetsu Yuna: Final Edition 
for the PlayStation. The Redump-verified image is highly suggested, though other 
images may work if they're a close enough match.

  http://redump.org/disc/61515/
    Redump name: Ginga Ojousama Densetsu Yuna: Final Edition
    CRC32:       3ae39fd8
    MD5:         b5779da816fa7dfe524117f00b7648e0
    SHA-1:       aa739893d453c9cdbf740058db4e582eadea0d0c

In order to build, you'll need to extract the various resources from the disc 
and put them in the "yuna3f/disc" folder in a particular configuration. Most of 
the work can be done automatically with the "discanalyze" utility included with 
discaster. Assuming you have a single-file disc image in BIN format called 
"yuna3f.bin", do this:

$ cd yuna3f
$ make -C../discaster
$ ../discaster/discanalyze yuna3f.bin disc

This will do the following:
  - Extract the disc's system area as "disc/gen/sysarea.bin"
  - Extract the Mode 1 files (all regular files) to the folder "disc/files"
  - Extract the Mode 2 files (movies and XA sound interleaves) in raw 
0x930-bytes-per-sector format to the folder "disc/rawfiles"

You can delete the automatically generated "disc/script_template.dsc" file if 
you want, as it's not needed.

With that done, all you should have to do is:

$ cd yuna3f
$ ./build.sh

build.sh should then build all the necessary tools and output the built disc 
image in BIN+CUE format as "yuna3f_build.bin" and "yuna3f_build.cue".

If you want to modify the project, check build.sh to see where the resources 
that get inserted into the game are coming from.

Note that translated game text is taken from the CSV files in the 
"yuna3f/script" directory. While these can be edited directly, it will probably 
be easier to instead work with the ODS files in the same folder, which are 
formatted ODS spreadsheet versions of the same content. Just run 
"convertscript.sh" before "build.sh" to convert the ODS files into the CSVs 
automatically (requires OpenOffice).

                    ****************************************
                    *              Licensing               *
                    ****************************************

See COPYING. Basically, everything by me (Supper) is GPLv3, and everything else
is under the terms of whoever wrote it.

                    ****************************************
                    *               Credits                *
                    ****************************************

                                Supper -- Hacking and Translation
                              Mafoo343 -- Translation Support, Testing
                                cccmar -- Testing
                              Xanathis -- Testing
                              Cargodin -- Testing

